okay let's go ahead and get started
thank you everyone for joining today's
Stellar development foundation quarterly
call
we are very excited to have you all on
today
we've got an exciting agenda a lot to
cover because sdf and Stellar really had
a big second quarter of 2020.
danel dixon our ceo is going to kick
things off in a moment with an
announcement about our work with
a fortune 15 company and to also share
some other highlights and achievements
we've worked towards in q2
and she'll be joined by bill bar height
ceo of abra about the exciting work and
products that abra's been working on and
that are powered by Stellar
and justin rice our head of ecosystem at
sdf he's going to provide some details
on our technology updates
and our overall network performance as
well as share some more about our
terrible charitable giving program that
we just announced with our ecosystem
partner loomanthropy
and then our general counsel candace
kelly is going to touch on sdf's growing
visibility and our public engagement
activities and the work we've been doing
to increase our involvement in the
policy dialogue
so like i said a lot to cover and of
so like I said a lot to cover and of
course we'll leave some time at the end
to answer any questions you have about
today's presentation
or the report that you should have all
received just shortly before the call
started
and you can submit questions throughout
the presentation in the chat box in the
in the chat box marked q a in the left
hand corner so with that
I'm really excited to turn it over to
our ceo and executive director danielle
dixon
for the moment we've all been waiting
for danielle
thank you lauren it's so awesome to be
here thanks everyone for joining the
call today
i just really love these quarterly calls
I just really love these quarterly calls
i actually really love going back and
I actually really love going back and
reflecting on the quarter that we just
had so
I'm really excited to be here and thank
you guys for joining us so let's get
started
first I'm super excited to announce and
to highlight
that in q2 we finalized sellers
integration into samsung's blockchain
key store
so over the last several months we've
been working closely with samsung to
integrate Stellar and I'm happy to
announce that Stellar end users are now
able to securely store private keys
on select samsung galaxy smartphones
i've been saying this a lot lately but
key management is an
important part of how we will drive our
technology into the mainstream
and samsung provides a key management
solution that is user friendly
and will ultimately drive greater
adoption of blockchain technology
because it's so easy to use it's
designed with the user in mind which is
just a really really important thing
that we need to continually focus on in
blockchain
this integration is also significant
development for the great ecosystem of
applications built on our network
it's going to allow Stellar ecosystem
developers to create blockchain apps and
services for samsung galaxy smartphones
in addition to existing Stellar-based
products and applications
it just opens up a whole new network of
users that can benefit from the combined
innovation of Stellar and samsung
we already have four Stellar based
businesses adopting the
the required sdks to make their
applications available in the key store
this is including d stock and satoshi
pay
lightmint and nodal but our work with
samsung isn't going to stop here
we're committed to collaborating to
expand and improve the blockchain
ecosystem experience for consumers
by working with developers who built who
have built on Stellar network and
incorporated the appropriate sdks into
their applications to utilize
the samsung blockchain keystore and the
integration into their applications
so together we'll partner in an ongoing
effort to recruit
onboard and support developers in the
Stellar ecosystem
it's just the beginning as we work
together to empower more developers and
users to leverage blockchain in the
capabilities presented by this
integration
we're really proud of this development
and it's reflective of the growth we're
seeing in all aspects of our business
so it's clear that 2020 has been a year
unlike any others across industries
we've all had to adapt to a new normal
fortunately for sdf and for Stellar
we're continuing to grow and thrive
even during these challenging times
we've grown our capacity
and our team we've brought exciting new
leaders onto our board
and we've made strategic advances on
every core tenet of our roadmap to
creating
equitable access to the global financial
system
and I'm just so proud of our work in
these areas so i want to just take you
these areas so I want to just take you
through the three pillars of our
strategy
first we've talked about our
requirement that we foster sustainable
use cases
and so we're growing our anchor
footprint in regions around the world
we're building product and we're making
strategic investments to be able to
support this pillar
second to ensure the robustness and
usability of Stellar so we've rolled out
an upgrade to our core protocol
we've expanded our developer tools and
our network health when you look at the
numbers is stronger than ever
and justin's gonna go through that in
just a few more minutes
and then finally to be the blockchain
that people know and trust
we've fully embraced virtual visibility
by making the rounds in virtual
conferences
and hosting 20 events of our own candace
is going to share some of those
highlights later in the call in addition
to how we're getting more visible with
policy makers and regulators
so the tldr is that we've made
significant progress in q2 on
all of our goals our strategy seems to
be working
and I'm convinced more than ever that
our progress is proving out to be a
strong year for Stellar
so let me share some proof points first
let's talk about what we're doing to
foster sustainable use cases on Stellar
anchors are a fundamental part of our
network to facilitate moving value from
the traditional banking system
into Stellar and vice versa the network
relies
on these entities that we call anchors
anchor services help create
a world where the existing financial
structure is connected
and interoperable with Stellar so this
quarter
we continued our focus on building
strong anchors in strategic markets so
this included
bolstering the u.s anchor ecosystem with
the addition of inclusive which offers
compliance as a service and accounts
and payment capabilities we also
expanded on calories success
in nigeria and we're supporting new
anchors such as click pasa in tanzania
anchor mxn in mexico and end tokens in
brazil
i just can't say how important anchors
I just can't say how important anchors
are it's an essential function for
enabling frictionless movement of value
between fiat currencies worldwide and
we're going to continue to expand our
anchor footprint in markets
where the data indicates that the
Stellar network can have an outsize
impact specifically for remittance
companies serving businesses and
individual lenders
and payment processors we've also
been building what we've talked about
before which is our product a wallet
called
vibrant that saw its beta launch this
quarter vibrant is a wallet that will
soon be generally available in argentina
where users will be able to hold share
convert
and send value it also showcases
sep 30 seller ecosystem proposal 30
about key recovery mechanism that is
very user friendly so i encourage you
very user friendly so I encourage you
all to check it out even in the beta
form
and then the other important way we've
been fostering sustainable use cases on
Stellar is by
investing in businesses on the network
we made two enterprise fund investments
in q2
one investment in satoshi pay a platform
for connecting the world through instant
payments
and one of the earliest adopters of
Stellar satoshi pay expanded their
business to tap into a growing b2b
cross-border payments market
where there is huge potential for a
player like them who has been in this
space and knows the opportunities
and the challenges the other investment
went to opera
a next generation financial platform
which is facilitating opera's
integration with Stellar
as its blockchain back end and offers
expansion of financial services that
will bring
new products powered by Stellar so to
share more about this work
and the progress they've made so far I'm
happy to introduce bill
barheit the ceo from oprah to the call
thanks so much bill for joining us
thank you for having me and good
morning or good afternoon wherever you
may be so I'm going to spend five
minutes just giving you
an introduction to abra's business and
then danielle and i are going to speak a
then danielle and I are going to speak a
little bit so if you'd like to
move into the the slides for forever
so just to give you those of
you who don't know abra
a quick overview of the services we
provide
abra is one of the more successful most
successful wallets
in the cryptocurrency space today
although we have users now using abra
for
storing fiat and moving traditional
money around as well
hundreds of thousands of users in over
100 countries now i think we're
100 countries now I think we're
approaching 150 countries
and we've processed processing a
billion plus in transaction volume
yearly
just just the ex team has executed
extremely well
over the last couple of years and we're
really excited now to
take this to the next level with Stellar
and we're really excited
that they've joined our investor base
including american express and foxconn
and
and arbor fidelity back fund so
so just let me walk you through some
of the details on the next slide if you
will
of how this this all works so in order
to
provide this awesome service that we
have we've had to build
lots of capabilities both what we call
our core capabilities as well as our
core services
for depositing earning interest
borrowing investing
and soon paying and spending and then
of course all of the the back-end
capabilities
that go into effectively running a
fintech financial technology
company let me walk you through a couple
of those now and i'll go to the next
slide
so so what everybody knows of course in
the front end
is the ability to invest as the
world's beloved cryptocurrency investing
wallet app
we basically work with lots of
exchanges
and lots of partners to facilitate the
buy sell
hold and transfer of dozens of
cryptocurrency assets
and now lots of
assets and we run a very large liquidity
system to
allow consumers in lots of countries to
get money in and out of the system
both in fiat via the banking system
bank wires ach
what most of us in the us would know as
well as cash network
so that folks in for example in
southeast asia philippines or in central
america like in guatemala
can actually use cash in their pockets
to get money into the abra app and then
withdraw cash
from the abra app and to do that we've
built a network of retail partners
to process deposits and and withdrawals
into the app it's very complex
difficult part of our business but
it's actually growing
it's actually growing faster even
than the the bank part of the
business which is really exciting it's
been
exploding the past the past few weeks
in particular so that's something we're
really excited about
on the next slide i give you
on the next slide I give you
if we go to the next slide
nope did we lose we lose our slide
there might be a slight delay can you
are you earn interest
i see it so so sorry about that so yeah
I see it so so sorry about that so yeah
so just to give you a little sneak peek
on some other capabilities
this is the interest earning capability
that we're going to be
launching in the next couple of weeks
this allows consumers
for example people who not even
aren't even familiar with cryptocurrency
to store dollars
and earn significant interest on those
dollars or actually
our existing crypto users can can earn
interest
on their on their deposits as well we'll
be supporting staking
currencies to earn interest there
and
other other currencies over time so
in the next slide
you can see that in addition to
you know just what we the interest
earning on the front end
we've built a very sophisticated
lending system where we have
very large institutional partners
that are vetted
in our risk management processes and
basic are borrowing those funds
in order to generate high yield for for
our consumers and that is
that includes everything from minors
hedge funds
large exchanges other loan originators
and this is a good segue
into what we're working on with Stellar
so if you'd like to go to the
to the last slide really the next the
next phase for abra
is is as i alluded to for us to take
is is as I alluded to for us to take
this to another level
is building an entirely new part of
our business
in order to facilitate the movement of
funds
globally in real time using the Stellar
network
and to do that and what that will enable
for us
is all forms of global lending the first
kind of generation of lending that
you hear about in the crypto world has
to do with
people leveraging themselves to go
along in crypto or
people borrowing against their bitcoin
or ethereum holdings
we want to take this to another level
and and use the Stellar platform to
truly enable
traditional banking applications at
global scale
trade finance rights cross-border
p2p loan origination loans like that
for example that are very difficult
for people in the west to take advantage
of in many cases
we think are totally possible now
leveraging the power
of of crypto and and distiller platform
so this is just a quick
kind of peek as to what's coming and
what we're really excited about
to be working on with Stellar so i'd
be happy to
answer any any questions well thanks
bill
well thank you the idea of me being the
one to ask you questions i've been on
your podcast so now it's my turn i get
your podcast so now it's my turn I get
to ask you a few
one of the things i wondered is you
one of the things I wondered is you
know we talk a lot about financial
inclusion in blockchain and i just
inclusion in blockchain and I just
wondered like from your standpoint how
is aubry focused on
financial inclusion and what are the
how do you think about that from your
business side
that's a great question we see financial
inclusion as
basically leveling access and creating a
level playing field for access globally
so that somebody in
i mentioned philippines earlier you know
I mentioned philippines earlier you know
a farmer in the philippines
in in mindanao for example where we
actually have users at abra
can access the same services in a
banking app as
an investment banker in san francisco
which is a place where we also have
users
and i think abra is one of the first
and I think abra is one of the first
companies to really try to create
a level playing field across all of
these different
geographies in a way that doesn't
really differentiate
from person to person obviously in terms
of how people might get money in and out
of the
out of the system would be different for
a cash user in southeast asia versus a
banked consumer
in san francisco but other than that the
core services they want in terms of the
ability to invest and earn
the ability to borrow the ability to
send and share funds they're all the
same the amounts might be different
but the ideas and and the basics of what
they want are effectively the same
and our goal is to enable that globally
and do you think that in our industry
we're already making strides to really
push this notion of financial
inclusion forward
well it's i think it's a mixed bag i
well it's I think it's a mixed bag i
think that
there's a lot of people kind of at the
at the bottom of the income pyramid
who've done fantastic work
in building kind of micro finance
services
that's really hard it's very expensive
it's generally not self-sustaining
with some exceptions
in mexico and india i think we've
in mexico and india I think we've
seen some examples of how microfinance
can be self-sustaining but when you move
into the middle of the income pyramid
which is where abra is more focused
it really becomes more about creating
a a holistic kind of
global oriented user experience that
most banks don't understand they focus
on bank branches they focus
just purely on compliance compliance is
obviously very important
but it has to fit in with the user
experience and we're starting to see
this in some of these challenger banks
particularly in europe and and in latin
america that are gaining traction
and that's very encouraging and i think
and that's very encouraging and I think
i think you're going to see kind of a
I think you're going to see kind of a
whole
other generation of these challenger
kind of services now
that are just going to leave the banks
in the dust
okay so now i want to move a little bit
okay so now I want to move a little bit
back to Stellar and
would love to just have your few
thoughts about
why you selected Stellar and why you
thought Stellar was a great entity a
great
chain to build on sure i think
chain to build on sure I think
for us we're big believers in
leveraging the power of cryptocurrency
technology blockchain technology
and now stable coins which has become
kind of a flavor of the month but it's
simply a way of
leveraging cryptocurrency technology to
represent traditional value
on a blockchain to facilitate real world
banking applications the first
generation of all of this whether it's
the
deep fi which the flavor of the month
have all been around crypto for the sake
of crypto and that's fine we needed to
get where we are somehow
but we're excited about making this
globally accessible for traditional
banking applications
many challenges there one of the biggest
challenges we
faced in just the kind of the 1.0 of
abra
was scalability a lot of what we
originally built for example was built
on bitcoin
and it just wouldn't scale right so what
we need
is the ability to have a platform that
can
can create these stable coins but can
scale to
truly global applications in time and
space for us in a way that the kind of a
lot of the first generation platforms
could not
and that's where we think Stellar truly
shines
all right i love that now let me just
all right I love that now let me just
ask you one more question before we turn
it over to justin
and if you think about the rest of
the year and what a strange year it's
been
what is the one thing that you would
love to see in this space
change and develop by year end so
that we could actually blow things up in
yeah that's a great question so a lot of
the first generation of stable coin
products have been very
us-dollar-centric there's a
little bit of a few examples of other
things but i would really like to see
things but I would really like to see
some major g10 currencies
really go for or accompany startups
start to develop some g10 currencies
beyond the dollar using
stablecoin technologies like Stellar or
others
and start to see a lot of traction in
forex
applications money transfer remittances
cross-border business payments that
start to take advantage of this ability
to do on the wire
money transfer if we see that
then we know that we have real proof
points for crypto
being useful in the quote unquote real
world and we know it's coming it's just
a question of is it going to happen
you know in the next few months you know
the next year et cetera et cetera
but that would personally excite me the
most it may sound boring
but that's what it's going to take to
make this really useful
at global scale so awesome that would be
great to see that happen thank you so
much bill for joining us and i know that
much bill for joining us and I know that
you'll be available afterwards for
also questions
so at this point I'm going to turn it
over to justin who's going to walk us
through some network stats and other
things that he
wants to share with us great thanks to
now
thanks bill I'm justin rice head of
ecosystem at sdf
and I'm super excited to be here to
share more about the continued growth of
the network
and the development of Stellar
technology so Stellar is open source
and open participation and many of the
advancements sdf makes are in
collaboration with our ecosystem
in these uncertain times when it's clear
so many are struggling
we've been asking ourselves how can we
work with our ecosystem to make a
difference
now of course we believe the technology
we're working on will help address some
key underlying issues over the long term
but we also continue to ask ourselves
what can we do to help today
so we've decided that part of our
short-term answer is to continue our
partnership with lumenthropy
which is a Stellar-based platform for
charitable donations
this time to rally our community to
support an organization
deeply relevant to today's challenges
the usf
institute for non-violence and social
justice which is a 501c3
driving research education and advocacy
to advance the practice of
transformational
non-violence so for the entire month of
july
we will match lumen donations made by
our community to the institute
up to two million lumens we kicked off
the campaign with a 100 000 lumen
donation
and we're excited to see what our
community will contribute to make the
world a better
more generous and more compassionate
place now let's take a look at this
quarter's numbers
and talk a bit about what they mean
so here are some key network stats
and we'll sort of go through them
quickly
the number of accounts on the network
has been stable hovering around 4.5
million total
we've seen a slight increase in the
number of daily operations
up 9 from q1 and that represents solid
network throughput and speaks to the
scalability of the network
there was a significant uptick in
average daily trading volume on
Stellar's decentralized exchange
this quarter we saw about 5.9 million
lumens worth of trades per day
which is a 70 increase from last quarter
the total number of payments has also
grown
consistently over q2 9 million to more
than 13 million as of june 30th there
were 7
893 on-chain assets which is a lot
i think it's important to note that
I think it's important to note that
we're working on a method to distinguish
and measure meaningful assets
those are assets that contribute to
the connected financial
financial infrastructure that we're
trying to build assets very in line with
the anchor strategy that danel mentioned
earlier
and many of these 7000 plus on-chain
assets will be beyond the scope of our
area of focus
but one thing is for sure people find it
very very easy to issue assets using
Stellar
lastly let's take a look at where the
network is in terms of health and
decentralization
there are currently 23 tier 1 validating
nodes
and about 120 nodes total that's about
the same as last quarter
and what we mentioned then bears
repeating the network would continue
it would keep going even if the sdf
turned off all of its notes
what's more encouraging is that we're
seeing more organizations in the
pipeline
to join the ranks of the tier one
validators and that's because there are
more businesses
invested in the network want to increase
their engagement and are capable of
doing so
those tier 1 validators are fundamental
to the health and stability of the
network they're also important to its
governance
and they help drive important upgrades
to the network like the adoption of
protocol 13
and q12 so protocol 13.
on june 18th the Stellar public network
upgraded to protocol 13.
like all important network-wide settings
protocol version is decided by
validating nodes
who vote for and agree to new protocol
versions the same way they vote for an
agree to transaction sets
a protocol upgrade implements a
bundle of core
core advancement proposals also known as
caps and protocol 13 included five
the first two cap 28 and cap 30 they're
really technical optimizations
one involved pre-auth signers the other
involved operation response codes
we won't get into the nitty-gritty
details here but the key takeaway for
those two
they both held Stellar core and
therefore the network as a whole run a
little leaner
but what made this release really
exciting was the addition of three
powerful new features
the first is fee bumps cap 15 which
empower app builders to cover user fees
so they can create
simpler and better customer experiences
they also allow validators to increase
the minimum network fee
without invalidating pre-signed
transactions thereby giving them the
flexibility to respond to changes in
network usage
so they can ensure that Stellar
continues to function as a fast
efficient and decentralized system for
payments
the second feature in protocol 13 is
fine
grain control of asset authorization cap
18 which grants issuers of regulated
assets the ability to approve user
transactions
on a case-by-case basis without
cancelling open orders on the books
so this optimizes Stellar so it's a
great option for issuing assets with
high compliance requirements
like security tickets and the third
protocol 13 feature is
first class multiplexed accounts cap 27
which allows exchanges and custodial
services to map a single Stellar account
to multiple users
without relying on inefficient
workarounds we've learned a lot by
talking to some of the larger crypto
exchanges
and this change will not only make their
lives easier it will also
pave the way for businesses that want to
manage client accounts to build on
Stellar
in addition to these changes at the
protocol level level of the network
we've also made some important
advancements for developers and
businesses
on the application level for example
we introduced sep 30
to now mention that earlier it's a
seamless user-focused solution for key
management and key recovery
as danelle was mentioned then and
when she was talking about samsung key
management is one of the biggest
impediments to user adoption
not just for Stellar but for crypto
generally and it's also one of the most
difficult
problems to solve for keys aren't
something you can remember they're
complicated strings of letters and
numbers
and in most crypto apps if you lose your
key you permanently lose access to your
account
and that just doesn't work for most
human beings so you can't introduce an
app to the general public and grow it at
scale
if a small human error can cost you
everything there has to be some sort of
recourse
I'm not going to get into all the
technical details but step 30 solves the
problem of key management by leveraging
Stellar's built-in multi-sig
capabilities
to allow a user to easily recover access
to an account without ever giving
control of that account to a third party
as danelle mentioned vibrant is built on
step 30 and i tested it last week
step 30 and I tested it last week
all i had to remember to access my
all I had to remember to access my
account was my phone number
the implications of sub 30 could be
huge right it paves the way
for a new breed of user friendly apps on
Stellar and we're really excited to see
what businesses
and developers can do we also did a
complete overhaul of our developer
documentation
the docs are now leaner better looking
and more focused on today's use cases
they're organized around learning paths
and will continue to add more learning
paths as network use cases evolve
Stellar's always been known for having
good documentation and we kept
everything that was working with this
new update
we just made it even easier to learn how
to build on Stellar
that's it for me so with that it's my
pleasure to turn it over to candace
kelly
our general counsel to share with you
what we've been doing to be the
blockchain people know and trust
candace
thanks so much justin it's great to
be here again I'm candice kelly the
general counsel
it's really encouraging to see all the
growth in our network and in the
technology
we've also been busy this quarter
getting vocal and visible
virtually of course in this pandemic
time on the policy front
we became a platform partner in the
world economic forum
center for the fourth industrial
revolution
as a member we're on the digital
currency governance consortium
which is a working group of industry
stakeholders addressing
key questions and governance gaps posed
by new forms
of digital currency including stable
coins
the consortium has a number of working
groups and we're focusing specifically
on the digital currency use cases the
working group will assess
where digital currency may add value
including a number of areas that are
right in our strike zone
for example the potential for digital
currency to replace cash
particularly in pandemic time issues
related to the need for lower cost
remittances and cross-border payments
financial inclusion money laundering and
strengthening of aml cft capacities
domestic and cross-border regulatory
oversight and coordination
monetary control and central bank
digital currencies
and since as justin just mentioned
Stellar was designed for stable coins
and cbdc's we find that it's very easy
to issue assets
on the Stellar network we're looking
forward to see how
we'll advance this important work of the
world economic forum
and then to strengthen sds capacity to
join more policy discussions
and forums like the like the west and to
raise awareness for Stellar within the
policy maker and regulatory spheres
we also hired a new head of policy and
government relations
who's focused primarily on engagement in
dc
but he's already getting up to speed on
policy issues that reach well beyond
our borders as well but we haven't just
been getting vocal with policy makers we
devoted
a lot of q2 to both joining and hosting
virtual events
we participated in eight industry events
we ran a Stellar foundation session at
consensus distributed
where we shared the vision of Stellar in
2020 and also highlighted businesses
built on Stellar
both jed and danelle were on stage at
block down to 2.0
jed was on a mastermind panel on
interoperability
and danelle delivered a keynote on her
favorite topic of the
of the moment key management danelle
also presented to a global audience of
entrepreneurs
at road to tycon in june we also focused
on
expanding our own capacity to host
virtual events which resulted in a total
of 20 events
we had 16 in english and we had four in
spanish throughout the quarter ranging
from webinars workshops
round tables engineering talks some of
the highlights include a webinar on
anchor basics
the business and benefits of being an
anchor a webinar on compliance
and the Stellar network supporting our
announcement of our partnership with
elliptic an engine engineering talk on
kelp
which is a free customizable open source
trading bot for the Stellar universal
marketplace
and a roundtable discussion on ecosystem
standards for creating payment corridors
which ultimately resulted in the
creation of step 31
which is helping anchors in the network
sending and receiving
transactions which is a tool that helps
them to comply with
the travel role in addition to our
aggressive efforts
in the communications front sdf executed
a series of paid marketing initiatives
to further awareness and understanding
of the Stellar network
our two speaking appearances at the
consensus distributed conference
were complemented by sponsorship
activation within the virtual conference
as well as within coindesk podcast
series additionally
sdf advertised on the unchained podcast
hosted by laura shin
and we've also begun testing the
effectiveness of online search and
display media
we also started preparations for our
biggest virtual event of all
which is our second annual Stellar
conference
meridian meridian is set for november
16th through the 20th
and in the context of the ongoing
pandemic we've decided
that the event will be held virtually
and it will be free of charge
the theme of the event is global
connections to solve real world
challenges
stay tuned for updates like speaker and
program announcements
by signing up at meridian.org
so that's it for me lauren i'll hand it
back to you
thank you candice and thank you everyone
those
we're now ready to open it up to q a so
if you have questions please submit them
in the chat box in the upper left hand
corner of your screen
it looks like we already have one
that we can kick
off with danelle i think this one
off with danelle I think this one
probably best suited for you is
to what extent has sdf's work been
impacted
or not by the pandemic that's such a
great question
and it's such a hard question because as
you can see by what we've done in q2
during the the heart of the pandemic i
think we've done awesome work
and I'm so grateful for all of our team
members who've spent so much of their
time
focused on the work even in a time when
there's so many other things in the
world to focus on
so we've kind of nailed it in terms of
the work that we've done but i can't
the work that we've done but I can't
pretend that this hasn't impacted
sdf in particular just because our
sdf
in addition to our the Stellar ecosystem
from an sds standpoint we have we were
open to remote already we had lots of
employees that were working remotely
and so this has just broadened that and
made it so that we're all working from
our homes and in our home offices
and and really i think doing a great job
and and really I think doing a great job
working together
but i have to say like it's hard and i
but I have to say like it's hard and i
think everybody's experiencing this all
around the world that it's it gets hard
when you don't have as much human
contact as you're used to
so we really are trying to focus on
getting folks to step away from their
computers and to have some
of their personal and alone time so that
they can really like
fuel what they need to feel in their
life so that they can still give back to
us but also to their families
i will say that i think that we're
I will say that I think that we're
very mindful
that even though sdf i think has been
that even though sdf I think has been
pretty strong and done some really great
work and had
and we're stable in terms of our
financials there are others in the
ecosystem who've been impacted so
we keep a really close eye on how the
ecosystem is doing just to make sure
that we have an understanding and that
we can do what we can do to support the
ecosystem
with respect to any kind of work that we
can do documentation we can provide
to make things seamless and easy so all
told i think we've done
told I think we've done
a fairly good job of really staying
focused during this
but i can't deny that it's just hard i
but I can't deny that it's just hard i
think it's hard for all of us
thanks danielle i think the next
thanks danielle I think the next
question we have that came in here is
for
bill at abra so i think you know
bill at abra so I think you know
we made the announcement back in may
about how you're going to be using
Stellar and so
maybe you could explain kind of what's
happened from may to now
sure so this is happening in in
phases for us
yes we are our goal is to build a
series of global
banking services which also
take advantage of the Stellar network
and the first phase for us
is our lending business and that's
already launched
where we're basically building
relationships with
lots of institutional players who
will be
partnering with abra in the lending
space
that tends to be stuff that we don't
necessarily announce but but is
essential for
building up liquidity in our
network
and then the technology part of this is
something that we'll be working on
mostly in the second half of this
year
and then the launch of that will also is
actually related to the question danelle
just answered
to the state of the kind of the
the lending markets because of covet
and you know for example if we're
looking at cross-border
p2p loan origination for example or
cross-border trade
trade finance applications a lot of what
we end up doing
from a risk management perspective will
depend upon
the state of the markets and you know
this
is the goal here is to and this is the
second part of your question that i see
second part of your question that I see
benjamin is that this extends
what's working in d5 way beyond just
crypto for the sake of crypto
but really to make it truly useful in
traditional finance
applications my favorite is
cross-border
p2p loan origination because this means
that loan originators
there are many p2p loan originators for
example now
who are well funded in southeast asia
latin america
but they have to source capital locally
and it's often very expensive
because the traditional banks won't play
and by
opening that up to other forms of
capital
that means that we can eventually drive
the rates down for
small business and individual loans in
in those emerging markets
and i think that leveraging stable coin
and I think that leveraging stable coin
technology for example to be able to
move that money around
very quickly is an essential part of
enabling that over time because we just
can't do it fast enough be in the banks
thank you thank you
so i think the next next question
so I think the next next question
we've got here
is for danelle you mentioned having a
growing anchor footprint
what's been the driver behind getting
more anchors on board and do we have a
goal for the number of anchors that we
would ultimately get to
so so anchors are my next favorite topic
and set 30 and anchors are kind of
close in terms of the
the needs and the value that anchors and
and then and then also key recovery
bring to the network and just to
blockchain generally having financial
institutions
on the network and creating corridors so
that businesses and individuals can
benefit for the
from these cross-border transactions is
just crucial for the success
of the Stellar network and so the driver
has been very clearly that
we need them and the other driver has
been demand from
we have corridors that are already open
and then we have demand from
some of the anchors to say hey we would
love to have you know another anchor on
the other side
in brazil for example or another anchor
on the other side in mexico so that we
can actually have those transactions go
back and forth
so it's the increasing volume on the
network the increasing
requirements that we see to open up more
and more corridors that are driving
the need for anchors but this is just a
really
important part of what we need to do and
what i see
what I see
our value add to the network is from an
sds standpoint is that we can help these
financial institutions to be able to
integrate
and to seamlessly operate with the the
network and with the other players on it
and i don't look at this in terms of
and I don't look at this in terms of
numbers because i think that it's more
numbers because I think that it's more
important that you think about it in
terms of corridors being open
so we're actually working now to
determine what our we're doing our q3
okrs right now to determine what we want
to see in terms of growth
but I'm not going to lie i would love to
but I'm not going to lie I would love to
see like 10 20 30 more anchors on the
network
in the next six months now that's
just a huge number to bring on
but it would just be fantastic to be
able to see more and more quarters open
up
so that we can have more and more room
for other businesses to join and
participate
in what we see is just a growing
ecosystem
thanks danielle i think the next
thanks danielle I think the next
question here is probably for
justin justin are there any technical
advancements like future caps or seps
that you anticipate
that are in the works
yeah that's a great question there
are several i'll talk about some of the
few like some of the most important ones
protocol 14 is well underway and it
involves
two caps that introduce also new great
features
cap 23 which introduces claimable
balances
they allow sending a payment to an
account that is not yet prepared to
receive it
and cap 33 which introduces sponsored
reserves
essentially allowing an app to cover
user reserves so users don't have to
understand or
manage a lumen balance both these things
work together to basically
make it so that you can build apps that
manage
all of the sort of crypto aspects of
Stellar and conceal the complexity of
crypto from users
so people can build payment apps that
look and feel like payment apps rather
than like
crypto payment apps and that's those
two will be part of protocol 14
which is in the works and once it's done
we'll sort of start rolling it out and
working with the ecosystem
to get the network upgraded well
underway the second sort of
big one that we're working on and we've
been working on for a while is a step
again a sort of
ecosystem level solution for a problem
that many people building on Stellar
phase
this one is called step 31 and
essentially it's it's designed in
conjunction with some current anchors
it enables two anchors to interoperate
to pass required information
and makes it so a user can send fiat
from their bank account
directly to the recipient's bank account
again this conceals sort of the
complexity of crypto from users and it
also allows these anchors to comply with
the travel rules so they comply with an
important regulation
that requires financial institutions to
share certain info
about parties involved in a transaction
and step 31 is like
a spec that has been worked out and in
fact we just added step 31 functionality
to polaris which is a reference
implementation that people can use
so that anchors can set this up really
easily and say those are the two
two big things
thank you justin okay i think we have
thank you justin okay I think we have
another question that came in here and
this one i think is for bill
this one I think is for bill
so i think some people saw the news
so I think some people saw the news
about the announcement of the settlement
you had with regulators yesterday
and just general question about whether
you anticipate any impact from that on
your business
sure that's a good question
back in i believe in the november
back in I believe in the november
december time frame
and we've long since moved on in our
business so basically for the last
seven months
of the business that we've been running
as had basically been post
those agreements so it just
happens to have been yesterday that
the sec and cftc made the announcements
we actually have no visibility as to
when they're going to do that it's kind
of a black
that was just a coincidence and as i
said abra has long since moved on
I'm not allowed to comment on the
content of the agreements except to say
you know we're fine with how far our
business in the us in particular is
doing really really well
and we're really happy with how
things stand so
no no concerns
great thank you very much for sharing
that and i think we have one
that and I think we have one
last question coming in here and it's
for
candid candice what kind of policy
objectives
are you looking to achieve by engaging
in dc and with
like the world economic forum as you
mentioned in your part of the
presentation
thanks lauren that's a good question
i think this is a really exciting time
I think this is a really exciting time
in the policy world of cryptocurrency
i will say that i think that the
I will say that I think that the
announcement of libra last year and then
the pandemic
and the discussions around digital
dollar and getting stimulus checks out
in a secure and efficient
way has really raised the profile and
and the interest level on the hill and
in dc
with both regulators and policy makers
in terms of first just understanding
what it is
i think that there were a lot of folks
I think that there were a lot of folks
who were quite well educated on
on cryptocurrency and blockchain
technology but they're they're
a lot who are still getting up to speed
on that
and there's a there's an urgency and an
interest in doing that which makes it
really a great opportunity for us
and i think that Stellar the sdf as a
and I think that Stellar the sdf as a
non-profit is in a unique
role in that we we really hope to be
able to be
a credible voice in just helping in that
education
department and obviously it starts with
and then participation having somebody
now a full-time person who can
really focus on these issues is
fantastic
and then advocacy is the is the
ultimate goal so
both within dc and then as i mentioned
both within dc and then as I mentioned
it's impossible with the global
nature of
our business and this technology to not
be jumping in
to conversations in all different
jurisdictions
as regulators across the globe are
trying to figure this out and
and take advantage of blockchain in a
safe and compliant way so
the world economic forum is one way that
we're doing that but we're also engaging
with
with anchors and partners across the
globe in making sure that we are being
helpful in both educating and advocating
on that on the
policy front
great well i think that is all the
great well I think that is all the
questions we had
thank you to our speakers for joining
today if anyone on the call has
follow-up questions feel free to
email us at media `stellar.org` and thank
you everyone
for joining us today